# Lesson Plan: Chapter 12
---
#### Connecting to CSTA Standards

Grades | Concept | Subconcept | Standard Number | Practice
---|---|---|---|---
6-8 | Impacts of Computing | Safety Law & Ethics| 2-IC-23 | Communicating About Computing: 7.2 |

#### Describe tradeoffs between allowing information to be public and keeping information private and secure.

Sharing information online can help establish, maintain, and strengthen connections between people. For example, it allows artists and designers to display their talents and reach a broad audience. However, security attacks often start with personal information that is publicly available online. Social engineering is based on tricking people into revealing sensitive information and can be thwarted by being wary of attacks, such as phishing and spoofing.

---

#### Learning Outcomes/Goals

desc

---

#### Differentiated Instruction

Lower level students | Higher level students
---|---
Can complete the project recipe in the emulator and explain how they would enhance it | Can try the project on a real device and enhance it with a motion sensor

---

#### Transfer Learning

desc

---

#### Vocabulary

* Phishing  
* PII  
* Social engineering 
* Spear phishing  
* Spoofing



---

#### Assessment

desc

Formative | Summative
---|---
Research how decisions are made by engineers to build hardware and software solutions appropriate for the task at hand and for the environment where they will be embedded. Sketch out a design for an optimal trap for fireflies. | Write a summary of the trap's goals and outcome, and outline three ways that the trap would be designed to withstand outdoor conditions.

---

#### Quiz Answers

Q
 - a
 - <span class="highlight">true b</span>



---

#### More Resources/Materials

- list

---

#### Solution Code

The full solution codebase can be found ...

---

#### Assignment and Rubric: Let's Go Outside

> copy of assessment from book

Exemplary | Adequate | Needs Improvement 
---|---|---
The student creates a creative prototype that includes a design for hardware, software, and at least one other sensor | The student creates a prototype that lacks creativity or one of the required elements | The student creates only a basic prototype that lacks sophistication

