# Lesson Plan: Chapter 13
---
#### Connecting to CSTA Standards

Grades | Concept | Subconcept | Standard Number | Practice
---|---|---|---|---
6-8 | Algorithms & Programming | Algorithms | 2-AP-10 | Developing and Using Abstractions: 4.4, 4.1 |
6-8 | Algorithms & Programming | Program Development| 2-AP-16 | Developing and Using Abstractions, Creating Computational Artifacts, Communicating About Computing: 4.2, 5.2, 7.3 |

#### Use flowcharts and/or pseudocode to address complex problems as algorithms.

Complex problems are problems that would be difficult for students to solve computationally. Students should use pseudocode and/or flowcharts to organize and sequence an algorithm that addresses a complex problem, even though they may not actually program the solutions. For example, students might express an algorithm that produces a recommendation for purchasing sneakers based on inputs such as size, colors, brand, comfort, and cost. Testing the algorithm with a wide range of inputs and users allows students to refine their recommendation algorithm and to identify other inputs they may have initially excluded.

#### Incorporate existing code, media, and libraries into original programs, and give attribution.

Building on the work of others enables students to produce more interesting and powerful creations. Students should use portions of code, algorithms, and/or digital media in their own programs and websites. At this level, they may also import libraries and connect to web application program interfaces (APIs). For example, when creating a side-scrolling game, students may incorporate portions of code that create a realistic jump movement from another person's game, and they may also import Creative Commons-licensed images to use in the background. Students should give attribution to the original creators to acknowledge their contributions.

---

#### Learning Outcomes/Goals

desc

---

#### Differentiated Instruction

Lower level students | Higher level students
---|---
Can complete the project recipe in the emulator and explain how they would enhance it | Can try the project on a real device and enhance it with a motion sensor

---

#### Transfer Learning

desc

---

#### Vocabulary

* A-Frame 
* Algorithm 
* CDN 
* Creative Commons license 
* Flowchart 
* 3D



---

#### Assessment

desc

Formative | Summative
---|---
Research how decisions are made by engineers to build hardware and software solutions appropriate for the task at hand and for the environment where they will be embedded. Sketch out a design for an optimal trap for fireflies. | Write a summary of the trap's goals and outcome, and outline three ways that the trap would be designed to withstand outdoor conditions.

---

#### Quiz Answers

Q
 - a
 - <span class="highlight">true b</span>



---

#### More Resources/Materials

- list

---

#### Solution Code

The full solution codebase can be found ...

---

#### Assignment and Rubric: Let's Go Outside

> copy of assessment from book

Exemplary | Adequate | Needs Improvement 
---|---|---
The student creates a creative prototype that includes a design for hardware, software, and at least one other sensor | The student creates a prototype that lacks creativity or one of the required elements | The student creates only a basic prototype that lacks sophistication



https://cs4kids-a-frame.glitch.me
