# Lesson Plan: Chapter 16
---
#### Connecting to CSTA Standards

Grades | Concept | Subconcept | Standard Number | Practice
---|---|---|---|---
6-8 | Algorithms & Programming | Program Development | 2-AP-19 | Communicating About Computing: 7.2 |

#### Document programs in order to make them easier to follow, test, and debug.

Documentation allows creators and others to more easily use and understand a program. Students should provide documentation for end users that explains their artifacts and how they function. For example, students could provide a project overview and clear user instructions. They should also incorporate comments in their product and communicate their process using design documents, flowcharts, and presentations.

---

#### Learning Outcomes/Goals

desc

---

#### Differentiated Instruction

Lower level students | Higher level students
---|---
Can complete the project recipe in the emulator and explain how they would enhance it | Can try the project on a real device and enhance it with a motion sensor

---

#### Transfer Learning

desc

---

#### Vocabulary

- **item**: desc 



---

#### Assessment

desc

Formative | Summative
---|---
Research how decisions are made by engineers to build hardware and software solutions appropriate for the task at hand and for the environment where they will be embedded. Sketch out a design for an optimal trap for fireflies. | Write a summary of the trap's goals and outcome, and outline three ways that the trap would be designed to withstand outdoor conditions.

---

#### Quiz Answers

Q
 - a
 - <span class="highlight">true b</span>



---

#### More Resources/Materials

- list

---

#### Solution Code

The full solution codebase can be found ...

---

#### Assignment and Rubric: Let's Go Outside

> copy of assessment from book

Exemplary | Adequate | Needs Improvement 
---|---|---
The student creates a creative prototype that includes a design for hardware, software, and at least one other sensor | The student creates a prototype that lacks creativity or one of the required elements | The student creates only a basic prototype that lacks sophistication

