# Lesson Plan: Chapter 17
---
#### Connecting to CSTA Standards

Grades | Concept | Subconcept | Standard Number | Practice
---|---|---|---|---
6-8 | Algorithms & Programming | Modularity | 2-AP-13 | Recognizing and Defining Computational Problems: 3.2 |
6-8 | Impacts of Computing | Social Interactions | 2-IC-22 | Collaborating Around Computing, Creating Computational Artifacts: 2.4, 5.2 |

#### Decompose problems and subproblems into parts to facilitate the design, implementation, and review of programs.

Students should break down problems into subproblems, which can be further broken down to smaller parts. Decomposition facilitates aspects of program development by allowing students to focus on one piece at a time (e.g., getting input from the user, processing the data, and displaying the result to the user). Decomposition also enables different students to work on different parts at the same time. For example, animations can be decomposed into multiple scenes, which can be developed independently.

#### Collaborate with many contributors through strategies such as crowdsourcing or surveys when creating a computational artifact.

Crowdsourcing is gathering services, ideas, or content from a large group of people, especially from the online community. It can be done at the local level (e.g., classroom or school) or global level (e.g., age-appropriate online communities, like Scratch and Minecraft). For example, a group of students could combine animations to create a digital community mosaic. They could also solicit feedback from many people though use of online communities and electronic surveys.

---

#### Learning Outcomes/Goals

desc

---

#### Differentiated Instruction

Lower level students | Higher level students
---|---
Can complete the project recipe in the emulator and explain how they would enhance it | Can try the project on a real device and enhance it with a motion sensor

---

#### Transfer Learning

desc

---

#### Vocabulary

- **item**: desc 



---

#### Assessment

desc

Formative | Summative
---|---
Research how decisions are made by engineers to build hardware and software solutions appropriate for the task at hand and for the environment where they will be embedded. Sketch out a design for an optimal trap for fireflies. | Write a summary of the trap's goals and outcome, and outline three ways that the trap would be designed to withstand outdoor conditions.

---

#### Quiz Answers

Q
 - a
 - <span class="highlight">true b</span>



---

#### More Resources/Materials

- list

---

#### Solution Code

The full solution codebase can be found ...

---

#### Assignment and Rubric: Let's Go Outside

> copy of assessment from book

Exemplary | Adequate | Needs Improvement 
---|---|---
The student creates a creative prototype that includes a design for hardware, software, and at least one other sensor | The student creates a prototype that lacks creativity or one of the required elements | The student creates only a basic prototype that lacks sophistication

